Process/README.md, before:

# Project Smackdown
## An experimental smash 'em up arena

When thinking about ideas for shmups, one of the questions I kept coming back to was "what if I remove something that is normally considered vital to a game in the genre?"
The idea I decided on was a game where you defeat enemies by ground pounding them and using their shrapnel to kill other enemies. Therefore a "shmup without bullets".

**Objectives:** <br />
I'm imaging the game would follow a similar objective to those of top down shmups like geometry wars: the player need to avoid bullets and enemies to stay alive, in order to do that they must control crowds of enemies by kiting or destroying them. The player also will have a secondary objective of score, which will incentivize them to play more dangerously and strategically to rack up larger combos.

**Rules, boundaries, resources:** <br />
In this game I think these elements are all closely related because of your main means of "doing things" in the game: the jump/ground pound. This ability to jump is going to be locked behind a cooldown timer, therefore your jump is your primary "resource". Other resources would include free space to move around and the enemies themselves, which are used to destroy other enemies.

**Tables:** <br />
At this point it's hard to think about progression when the prototype isn't done yet, but I imagine that the game would follow a wave based approach where you face stronger and more numerous waves of enemies as time goes on. Due to the arcade like nature of the game I don't think the player should get any stronger, except maybe through power ups. I want to keep the game loop simple and engaging, no ideally the mechanics themselves won't change much.

**Puzzles:** <br />
So there is a dilemma here, the game could either lean into the arcade action-y direction or potentially slow down and become more about complex enemy alignment puzzles. In the former the "puzzles" would be about dexterity and quick reaction while trying to takeout many enemies onscreen. Enemy bullet patterns would be less structured and more about filling the screen. In the latter enemies would move slower and have unique bullets patterns so the player has to help line them up in order to kill many in one go. Since the jump is on a timer, playing sub optimally would mean more enemies on the screen at a given point and therefore a more difficult scenario to survive in.

**Barebones Rules:** <br />
- The player can move up, down, left, right in a 2d plane
- The player has a jump move that can has a significant cooldown
- Jumping will cause the player to fly into the air and pick a nearby spot to ground pound on
- Jumping on an enemy will kill it and send bullets flying out from it in certain directions which will kill other enemies
- Enemies will move and/or shoot at the player to attack them


**Tutorials I used:**

- Top down 2d player controller: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yfsqai3ivyA
- Parabola code for the jump: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ddakS7BgHRI
- Jump bar: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BLfNP4Sc_iA
- Probuilder tutorial: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YtzIXCKr8Wo

Commit message:

Updated process notes, other things

Process/README.md, after:

# Project Smackdown
## An experimental smash 'em up arena

When thinking about ideas for shmups, one of the questions I kept coming back to was "what if I remove something that is normally considered vital to a game in the genre?"
The idea I decided on was a game where you defeat enemies by ground pounding them and using their shrapnel to kill other enemies. Therefore a "shmup without bullets".

**Objectives:** <br />
I'm imaging the game would follow a similar objective to those of top down shmups like geometry wars: the player need to avoid bullets and enemies to stay alive, in order to do that they must control crowds of enemies by kiting or destroying them. The player also will have a secondary objective of score, which will incentivize them to play more dangerously and strategically to rack up larger combos.

**Rules, boundaries, resources:** <br />
In this game I think these elements are all closely related because of your main means of "doing things" in the game: the jump/ground pound. This ability to jump is going to be locked behind a cooldown timer, therefore your jump is your primary "resource". Other resources would include free space to move around and the enemies themselves, which are used to destroy other enemies.

**Tables:** <br />
At this point it's hard to think about progression when the prototype isn't done yet, but I imagine that the game would follow a wave based approach where you face stronger and more numerous waves of enemies as time goes on. Due to the arcade like nature of the game I don't think the player should get any stronger, except maybe through power ups. I want to keep the game loop simple and engaging, no ideally the mechanics themselves won't change much.

**Puzzles:** <br />
So there is a dilemma here, the game could either lean into the arcade action-y direction or potentially slow down and become more about complex enemy alignment puzzles. In the former the "puzzles" would be about dexterity and quick reaction while trying to takeout many enemies onscreen. Enemy bullet patterns would be less structured and more about filling the screen. In the latter enemies would move slower and have unique bullets patterns so the player has to help line them up in order to kill many in one go. Since the jump is on a timer, playing sub optimally would mean more enemies on the screen at a given point and therefore a more difficult scenario to survive in.

**Barebones Rules:** <br />
- The player can move up, down, left, right in a 2d plane
- The player has a jump move that can has a significant cooldown
- Jumping will cause the player to fly into the air and pick a nearby spot to ground pound on
- Jumping on an enemy will kill it and send bullets flying out from it in certain directions which will kill other enemies
- Enemies will move and/or shoot at the player to attack them

##playtesting notes
Need to figure out verticality of the environment, it seems like you should be able to jump onto obstacles since your jump is so high.
Would be cool to jump onto platforms but that might make gameplay boring if you can escape enemies by jumping onto a ledge. Fix would be that platforms sink with each jump, enemies can cause platforms to sink?
Need to think about how dangerous it will be when running into enemies, should shockwave push them away instead of damage them?


**Tutorials I used:**

- Top down 2d player controller: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yfsqai3ivyA
- Parabola code for the jump: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ddakS7BgHRI
- Jump bar: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BLfNP4Sc_iA
- Probuilder tutorial: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YtzIXCKr8Wo
